setID	setSize	name	namespace	distance	cMatrix
KEGG_ABC_TRANSPORTERS	44	ABC transporters	C2	The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters form one of the largest known protein families, and are widespread in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. They couple ATP hydrolysis to active transport of a wide variety of substrates such as ions, sugars, lipids, sterols, peptides, proteins, and drugs. The structure of a prokaryotic ABC transporter usually consists of three components; typically two integral membrane proteins each having six transmembrane segments, two peripheral proteins that bind and hydrolyze ATP, and a periplasmic (or lipoprotein) substrate-binding protein. Many of the genes for the three components form operons as in fact observed in many bacterial and archaeal genomes. On the other hand, in a typical eukaryotic ABC transporter, the membrane spanning protein and the ATP-binding protein are fused, forming a multi-domain protein with the membrane-spanning domain (MSD) and the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD).	1.84269678830449
KEGG_ACUTE_MYELOID_LEUKEMIA	57	Acute myeloid leukemia	C2	Two major types of genetic events are crucial for the molecular pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemias (AML) : activating mutations of signal transduction intermediates and alterations in myeloid transcription factors governing hematopoietic differentiation. Both aberrant and constitutive activation of signal transduction molecules are found in about 50% of primary AML bone marrow samples, and seem to contribute to the increased proliferation and apoptosis resistance. The most common of these activating events were observed in the RTK Flt3, in N-Ras and K-Ras, in Kit, and sporadically in other RTKs. Specific haematopoietic transcription factors are crucial for differentiation to particular lineages during normal differentiation, but are frequently disrupted in AML. Some mechanisms of disruption involve the effect of fusion proteins that are generated by chromosomal translocations on haematopoietic transcription factors. In other cases, the transcription factors themselves are mutated.	1.57558507244718
KEGG_ADHERENS_JUNCTION	73	Adherens junction	C2	Cell-cell adherens junctions (AJs), the most common type of intercellular adhesions, are important for maintaining tissue architecture and cell polarity and can limit cell movement and proliferation. At AJs, E-cadherin serves as an essential cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The cytoplasmic tail binds beta-catenin, which in turn binds alpha-catenin. Alpha-catenin is associated with F-actin bundles directly and indirectly. The integrity of the cadherin-catenin complex is negatively regulated by phosphorylation of beta-catenin by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases (Fer, Fyn, Yes, and Src), which leads to dissociation of the cadherin-catenin complex. Integrity of this complex is positively regulated by beta -catenin phosphorylation by casein kinase II, and dephosphorylation by protein tyrosine phosphatases. Changes in the phosphorylation state of beta-catenin affect cell-cell adhesion, cell migration and the level of signaling beta-catenin. Wnt signaling acts as a positive regulator of beta-catenin by inhibiting beta-catenin degradation, which stabilizes beta-catenin, and causes its accumulation. Cadherin may acts as a negative regulator of signaling beta-catenin as it binds beta-catenin at the cell surface and thereby sequesters it from the nucleus. Nectins also function as CAMs at AJs, but are more highly concentrated at AJs than E-cadherin. Nectins transduce signals through Cdc42 and Rac, which reorganize the actin cytoskeleton, regulate the formation of AJs, and strengthen cell-cell adhesion.	1.68472949517392
KEGG_ALDOSTERONE_REGULATED_SODIUM_REABSORPTION	42	Aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption	C2	Sodium transport across the tight epithelia of Na+ reabsorbing tissues such as the distal part of the kidney nephron and colon is the major factor determining total-body Na+ levels, and thus, long-term blood pressure. Aldosterone plays a major role in sodium and potassium metabolism by binding to epithelial mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) in the renal collecting duct cells localized in the distal nephron, promoting sodium resorption and potassium excretion. Aldosterone enters a target cell and binds MR, which translocates into the nucleus and regulates gene transcription. Activation of MR leads to increased expression of Sgk-1, which phosphorylates Nedd4-2, an ubiquitin-ligase which targets ENAC to proteosomal degradation. Phosphorylated Nedd4-2 dissociates from ENAC, increasing its apical membrane abundance. Activation of MR also leads to increased expression of Na+/K+-ATPase, thus causing a net increase in sodium uptake from the renal filtrate. The specificity of MR for aldosterone is provided by 11beta-HSD2 by the rapid conversion of cortisol to cortisone in renal cortical collecting duct cells. Recently, besides genomic effects mediated by activated MR, rapid aldosterone actions that are independent of translation and transcription have been documented.	1.92081875395238
KEGG_ALZHEIMERS_DISEASE	154	Alzheimer's disease	C2	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic disorder that slowly destroys neurons and causes serious cognitive disability. AD is associated with senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Amyloid-beta (Abeta), a major component of senile plaques, has various pathological effects on cell and organelle function. The extracellular Abeta oligomers may activate caspases through activation of cell surface death receptors. Alternatively, intracellular Abeta may contribute to pathology by facilitating tau hyper-phosphorylation, disrupting mitochondria function, and triggering calcium dysfunction. To date genetic studies have revealed four genes that may be linked to autosomal dominant or familial early onset AD (FAD). These four genes include: amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and apolipoprotein E (ApoE). All mutations associated with APP and PS proteins can lead to an increase in the production of Abeta peptides, specifically the more amyloidogenic form, Abeta42. FAD-linked PS1 mutation downregulates the unfolded protein response and leads to vulnerability to ER stress.	1.15408903954754
KEGG_AMYOTROPHIC_LATERAL_SCLEROSIS_ALS	53	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)	C2	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, lethal, degenerative disorder of motor neurons. The hallmark of this disease is the selective death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord, leading to paralysis of voluntary muscles. Mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), as seen in some familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) cases, may be toxic because it is unstable, forming aggregates in the motor neuron cytoplasm, axoplasm and mitochondria. Within mitochondria, mutant SOD1 may interfere with the anti-apoptotic function of Bcl-2, affect mitochondrial import by interfering with the translocation machinery (TOM/TIM), and generate toxic free radicals (ROS) via aberrant superoxide chemistry. These changes may then result in abnormal mitochondrial energy metabolism, Ca2+ handling, and release of pro-apoptotic factors. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced within mitochondria, inhibit the function of EAAT2, the main glial glutamate transporter protein, responsible for most of the reuptake of synaptically released glutamate. Glutamate excess causes neurotoxicity by increasing intracellular calcium, which enhances oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Mutant SOD1 can also trigger oxidative reactions by various means including by increasing levels of peroxynitrite, which can then cause damage through the formation of hydroxyl radicals or via nitration of tyrosine residues on proteins. Nitration may target neurofilament proteins, disrupting their phosphorylation and affecting axonal transport. Collectively, these mechanisms (or a combination thereof) are predicted to disturb cellular homeostasis (within glial and/or motor neurons), ultimately triggering motor neuron death.	1.92081875395238
KEGG_APOPTOSIS	86	Apoptosis	C2	Apoptosis is a genetically controlled mechanisms of cell death involved in the regulation of tissue homeostasis. The 2 major pathways of apoptosis are the extrinsic (Fas and other TNFR superfamily members and ligands) and the intrinsic (mitochondria-associated) pathways, both of which are found in the cytoplasm. The extrinsic pathway is triggered by death receptor engagement, which initiates a signaling cascade mediated by caspase-8 activation. Caspase-8 both feeds directly into caspase-3 activation and stimulates the release of cytochrome c by the mitochondria. Caspase-3 activation leads to the degradation of cellular proteins necessary to maintain cell survival and integrity. The intrinsic pathway occurs when various apoptotic stimuli trigger the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria (independently of caspase-8 activation). Cytochrome c interacts with Apaf-1 and caspase-9 to promote the activation of caspase-3. Recent studies point to the ER as a third subcellular compartment implicated in apoptotic execution. Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis and accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER cause ER stress. Prolonged ER stress can result in the activation of BAD and/or caspase-12, and execute apoptosis.	1.92081875395238
KEGG_ARRHYTHMOGENIC_RIGHT_VENTRICULAR_CARDIOMYOPATHY_ARVC	74	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC)	C2	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited heart muscle disease that may result in arrhythmia, heart failure, and sudden death. The hallmark pathological findings are progressive myocyte loss and fibrofatty replacement, with a predilection for the right ventricle. A number of genetic studies have identified mutations in various components of the cardiac desmosome that have important roles in the pathogenesis of ARVD/C. Disruption of desmosomal function by defective proteins might lead to death of myocytes under mechanical stress. The myocardial injury may be accompanied by inflammation. Since regeneration of cardiac myocytes is limited, repair by fibrofatty replacement occurs. Several studies have implicated that desmosome dysfunction results in the delocalization and nuclear translocation of plakoglobin. As a result, competition between plakoglobin and beta-catenin will lead to the inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, resulting in a shift from a myocyte fate towards an adipocyte fate of cells. The ryanodine receptor plays a crucial part in electromechanical coupling by control of release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum into the cytosol. Therefore, defects in this receptor could result in an imbalance of calcium homeostasis that might trigger cell death.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_AXON_GUIDANCE	128	Axon guidance	C2	Axon guidance represents a key stage in the formation of neuronal network. Axons are guided by a variety of guidance factors, such as netrins, ephrins, Slits, and semaphorins. These guidance cues are read by growth cone receptors, and signal transduction pathways downstream of these receptors converge onto the Rho GTPases to elicit changes in cytoskeletal organization that determine which way the growth cone will turn.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_B_CELL_RECEPTOR_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	75	B cell receptor signaling pathway	C2	B cells are an important component of adaptive immunity. They produce and secrete millions of different antibody molecules, each of which recognizes a different (foreign) antigen. The B cell receptor (BCR) is an integral membrane protein complex that is composed of two immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chains, two Ig light chains and two heterodimers of Ig-alpha and Ig-beta. After BCR ligation by antigen, three main protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) -the SRC-family kinase LYN, SYK and the TEC-family kinase BTK- are activated. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and phospholipase C-gamma 2 (PLC-gamma 2) are important downstream effectors of BCR signalling. This signalling ultimately results in the expression of immediate early genes that further activate the expression of other genes involved in B cell proliferation, differentiation and Ig production as well as other processes.	1.50052035627346
KEGG_BASAL_CELL_CARCINOMA	55	Basal cell carcinoma	C2	The development of basal cell carcinoma is associated with constitutive activation of sonic hedgehog signaling. Normally, ligand-dependent signaling by Hedgehog (Hh) homologs proceeds through binding to the Patched receptor. This binding relieves the Patched-mediated inhibition of signaling through the Smoothened (SMOH) gene product. This signaling ultimately results in the dissociation of the Gli1 transcription factor from an inhibitory complex in the cytoplasm, its subsequent translocation to the nucleus, and activation of target gene expression. The mutations in SMOH, PTCH1, and SHH in BCCs result in continuous activation of target genes. At a cellular level, sonic hedgehog signaling promotes cell proliferation. Mutations in TP53 are also found with high frequency (&gt;50%) in sporadic BCC.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_BLADDER_CANCER	41	Bladder cancer	C2	Bladder cancer arise and progress along two distinctive pathways. The first of these is often preceded by simple and papillary hyperplasia and exhibits a tumour morphology that is low-grade, superficial and papillary. Papillary carcinoma has a tendency to recur locally, but rarely invades and metastasizes. These tumors frequently show a constitutive activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase-Ras pathway, exhibiting activating mutations in the HRAS and fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) genes. The second tumour pathway is characterized by high-grade muscle-invasive tumours, which either originate from flat carcinoma in situ (CIS)/severe dysplasia or arise de novo. Over half of these tumours show defects in the tumour suppressors p53 and/or the retinoblastoma protein (RB) genes and pathways, and over 50% of these tumours progress to local and distant metastases. Some of the cell cycle-related molecules show evidence of epigenetic modulation through aberrant promoter hypermethylation in invasive bladder cancer. Invasion and metastases are promoted by several factors that alter the tumour microenvironment, including the aberrant expression of E-cadherins (E-cad), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).	2.1279929869748
KEGG_CALCIUM_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	177	Calcium signaling pathway	C2	Ca2+ that enters the cell from the outside is a principal source of signal Ca2+. Entry of Ca2+ is driven by the presence of a large electrochemical gradient across the plasma membrane. Cells use this external source of signal Ca2+ by activating various entry channels with widely different properties. The voltage-operated channels (VOCs) are found in excitable cells and generate the rapid Ca2+ fluxes that control fast cellular processes. There are many other Ca2+-entry channels, such as the receptor-operated channels (ROCs), for example the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NMDARs) that respond to glutamate. There also are second-messenger-operated channels (SMOCs) and store-operated channels (SOCs). The other principal source of Ca2+ for signalling is the internal stores that are located primarily in the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum (ER/SR), in which inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) or ryanodine receptors (RYRs) regulate the release of Ca2+. The principal activator of these channels is Ca2+ itself and this process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release is central to the mechanism of Ca2+ signalling. Various second messengers or modulators also control the release of Ca2+. IP3, which is generated by pathways using different isoforms of phospholipase C (PLCbeta, delta, epsilon, gamma and zeta), regulates the IP3Rs. Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) releases Ca2+ via RYRs. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) may activate a distinct Ca2+ release mechanism on separate acidic Ca2+ stores. Ca2+ release via the NAADP-sensitive mechanism may also feedback onto either RYRs or IP3Rs. cADPR and NAADP are generated by CD38. This enzyme might be sensitive to the cellular metabolism, as ATP and NADH inhibit it. The influx of Ca2+ from the environment or release from internal stores causes a very rapid and dramatic increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration, which has been widely exploited for signal transduction. Some proteins, such as troponin C (TnC) involved in muscle contraction, directly bind to and sense Ca2+. However, in other cases Ca2+ is sensed through intermediate calcium sensors such as calmodulin (CALM).	2.1279929869748
KEGG_CARDIAC_MUSCLE_CONTRACTION	72	Cardiac muscle contraction	C2	Contraction of the heart is a complex process initiated by the electrical excitation of cardiac myocytes (excitation-contraction coupling, ECC). In cardiac myocytes, Ca2+ influx induced by activation of voltage-dependent L-type Ca channels (DHP receptors) upon membrane depolarization triggers the release of Ca2+ via Ca2+ release channels (ryanodine receptors) of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) through a Ca2+ -induced Ca release (CICR) mechanism. Ca2+ ions released via the CICR mechanism diffuse through the cytosolic space to contractile proteins to bind to troponinC resulting in the release of inhibition induced by troponinI. The Ca2+ binding to troponinC thereby triggers the sliding of thin and thick filaments, that is, the activation of a crossbridge and subsequent cardiac force development and/or cell shortening. Recovery occurs as Ca2+ is pumped out of the cell by the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) or is returned to the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) by sarco(endo)plasmic Ca2+ -ATPase (SERCA) pumps on the non-junctional region of the SR.	1.62443367890027
KEGG_CELL_ADHESION_MOLECULES_CAMS	130	Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs)	C2	Cell adhesion molecules are (glyco)proteins expressed on the cell surface and play a critical role in a wide array of biologic processes that include hemostasis, the immune response, inflammation, embryogenesis, and development of neuronal tissue. There are four main groups: the integrin family, the immunoglobulin superfamily, selectins, and cadherins. Membrane proteins that mediate immune cellcell interactions fall into different categories, namely those involved in antigen recognition, costimulation and cellular adhesion. Furthermore cell-cell adhesions are important for brain morphology and highly coordinated brain functions such as memory and learning. During early development of the nervous system, neurons elongate their axons towards their targets and establish and maintain synapses through formation of cell-cell adhesions. Cell-cell adhesions also underpin axon-axon contacts and link neurons with supporting schwann cells and oligodendrocytes.	1.34778703034476
KEGG_CELL_CYCLE	123	Cell cycle	C2	Mitotic cell cycle progression is accomplished through a reproducible sequence of events, DNA replication (S phase) and mitosis (M phase) separated temporally by gaps known as G1 and G2 phases. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are key regulatory enzymes, each consisting of a catalytic CDK subunit and an activating cyclin subunit. CDKs regulate the cell's progression through the phases of the cell cycle by modulating the activity of key substrates. Downstream targets of CDKs include transcription factor E2F and its regulator Rb. Precise activation and inactivation of CDKs at specific points in the cell cycle are required for orderly cell division. Cyclin-CDK inhibitors (CKIs), such as p16Ink4a, p15Ink4b, p27Kip1, and p21Cip1, are involved in the negative regulation of CDK activities, thus providing a pathway through which the cell cycle is negatively regulated. Eukaryotic cells respond to DNA damage by activating signaling pathways that promote cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. In response to DNA damage, the checkpoint kinase ATM phosphorylates and activates Chk2, which in turn directly phosphorylates and activates p53 tumor suppressor protein. p53 and its transcriptional targets play an important role in both G1 and G2 checkpoints. ATR-Chk1-mediated protein degradation of Cdc25A protein phosphatase is also a mechanism conferring intra-S-phase checkpoint activation.	1.53496725364401
KEGG_CHEMOKINE_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	184	Chemokine signaling pathway	C2	Inflammatory immune response requires the recruitment of leukocytes to the site of inflammation upon foreign insult. Chemokines are small chemoattractant peptides that provide directional cues for the cell trafficking and thus are vital for protective host response. In addition, chemokines regulate plethora of biological processes of hematopoietic cells to lead cellular activation, differentiation and survival. The chemokine signal is transduced by chemokine receptors (G-protein coupled receptors) expressed on the immune cells. After receptor activation, the alpha- and beta-gamma-subunits of G protein dissociate to activate diverse downstream pathways resulting in cellular polarization and actin reorganization. Various members of small GTPases are involved in this process. Induction of nitric oxide and production of reactive oxygen species are as well regulated by chemokine signal via calcium mobilization and diacylglycerol production.	1.37241858608908
KEGG_CHRONIC_MYELOID_LEUKEMIA	73	Chronic myeloid leukemia	C2	Chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) is a biphasic disease, initiated by expression of the BCR/ABL fusion gene product in self-renewing, haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). HSCs can differentiate into common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), which then differentiate into granulocyte/macrophage progenitors (GMPs). HSCs can also differentiate into common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs), which are the progenitors of lymphocytes such as T cells and B cells. The initial chronic phase of CML (CML-CP) is characterized by a massive expansion of the granulocytic-cell series. Acquisition of additional genetic mutations beyond expression of BCR/ABL causes the progression of CML from chronic phase to blast phase (CML-BP), characterized by an accumulation of myeloid or lymphoid blast cells. The BCR/ABL fusion gene encodes p210BCR/ABL, an oncoprotein, which, unlike the normal p145 c-Abl, has constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. The tyrosine kinase activity is essential for cell transformation and the cytoplasmic localization of BCR/ABL allows the assembly of phosphorylated substrates in multiprotein complexes that transmit mitogenic and antiapoptotic signals. Additional cytogenetic and molecular changes are frequently found in patients with CML during the progression of the disease from chronic to blast phase. Some of the genetic changes include mutations in TP53, RB, and CDKN2A (also known as p16INK4A), or overexpression of genes such as EVI1. Additional chromosome translocations are also observed, such as t(3;21)(q26;q22), which generates AML1/EVI1. AML1/EVI-1 represses TGF-beta-mediated growth inhibitory signal.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_COLORECTAL_CANCER	62	Colorectal cancer	C2	Classically, colorectal cancer (CRC) has been believed to develop from normal mucosa through the premalignant adenoma by the step-wise accumulation of mutations. All CRC display either microsatellite instability (MSI) or chromosome instability (CIN). MSI occurs in 15% of colon cancers and results from inactivation of the DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system by either MMR gene mutations or hypermethylation of the MLH1 promoter. MSI promotes tumorigenesis through generating mutations in target genes that possess coding microsatellite repeats, such as beta-catenin, TGFBR2 and BAX. CIN is found in the majority of colon cancers and leads to a different pattern of gene alterations that contribute to tumor formation. Genes involved in CIN are those coding for APC, K-ras, SMAD4 and p53.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_COMPLEMENT_AND_COAGULATION_CASCADES	68	Complement and coagulation cascades	C2	Blood coagulation is a series of coordinated and calcium-dependent proenzyme-to-serine protease conversions likely to be localized on the surfaces of activated cells in vivo. It culminates in the formation of thrombin, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of soluble fibrinogen to the insoluble fibrin clot. The kallikrein-kinin system is an endogenous metabolic cascade, triggering of which results in the release of vasoactive kinins (bradykinin-related peptides). Kinin peptides are implicated in many physiological and pathological processes including the regulation of blood pressure and sodium homeostasis, inflammatory processes, and the cardioprotective effects of preconditioning. Complement is a system of plasma proteins that is activated by the presence of pathogens. There are three pathways of complement activation: the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the alternative pathway. All of these pathways generate a crucial enzymatic activity that, intern, generates the effector molecules of complement. The three main consequences of complement activation are the opsonization of pathogens, the recruitment of inflammatory and immunocompetent cells, and the direct killing of pathogens.	1.06048074738138
KEGG_DILATED_CARDIOMYOPATHY	90	Dilated cardiomyopathy	C2	Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a heart muscle disease characterised by dilation and impaired contraction of the left or both ventricles that results in progressive heart failure and sudden cardiac death from ventricular arrhythmia. Genetically inherited forms of DCM (familial DCM) have been identified in 25-35% of patients presenting with this disease, and the inherited gene defects are an important cause of familial DCM. The pathophysiology may be separated into two categories: defects in force generation and defects in force transmission. In cases where an underlying pathology cannot be identified, the patient is diagnosed with an idiopathic DCM. Current hypotheses regarding causes of idiopathic DCM focus on chronic viral myocarditis and/or on autoimmune abnormalities. Viral myocarditis may progress to an autoimmune phase and then to progressive cardiac dilatation. Antibodies to the beta1-adrenergic receptor (beta1AR), which are detected in a substantial number of patients with idiopathic DCM, may increase the concentration of intracellular cAMP and intracellular Ca2+, a condition often leading to a transient hyper-performance of the heart followed by depressed heart function and heart failure.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_DORSO_VENTRAL_AXIS_FORMATION	24	Dorso-ventral axis formation	C2		1.76102780432812
KEGG_ECM_RECEPTOR_INTERACTION	84	ECM-receptor interaction	C2	The extracellular matrix (ECM) consists of a complex mixture of structural and functional macromolecules and serves an important role in tissue and organ morphogenesis and in the maintenance of cell and tissue structure and function. Specific interactions between cells and the ECM are mediated by transmembrane molecules, mainly integrins and perhaps also proteoglycans, CD36, or other cell-surface-associated components. These interactions lead to a direct or indirect control of cellular activities such as adhesion, migration, differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. In addition, integrins function as mechanoreceptors and provide a force-transmitting physical link between the ECM and the cytoskeleton. Integrins are a family of glycosylated, heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that consist of noncovalently bound alpha- and beta-subunits.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_ENDOMETRIAL_CANCER	52	Endometrial cancer	C2	Two types of endometrial carcinoma are distinguished with respect to biology and clinical course. Type-I carcinoma is related to hyperestrogenism by association with endometrial hyperplasia, frequent expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and younger age, whereas type-II carcinoma is unrelated to estrogen, associated with atrophic endometrium, frequent lack of estrogen and progesterone receptors and older age. This classification has also been justified at the molecular level with Type 1 tumours being more commonly associated with abnormalities of DNA-mismatch repair genes, K-ras, PTEN and beta-catenin, and Type 2 tumours with abnormalities of p53 and HER2/neu.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_ERBB_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	87	ErbB signaling pathway	C2	The ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) couples binding of extracellular growth factor ligands to intracellular signaling pathways regulating diverse biologic responses, including proliferation, differentiation, cell motility, and survival. Ligand binding to the four closely related members of this RTK family -epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, also known as ErbB-1 or HER1), ErbB-2 (HER2), ErbB-3 (HER3), and ErbB-4 (HER4)-induces the formation of receptor homo- and heterodimers and the activation of the intrinsic kinase domain, resulting in phosphorylation on specific tyrosine residues (pY) within the cytoplasmic tail. Signaling effectors containing binding pockets for pY-containing peptides are recruited to activated receptors and induce the various signaling pathways. The Shc- and/or Grb2-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is a common target downstream of all ErbB receptors. Similarly, the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) pathway is directly or indirectly activated by most ErbBs. Several cytoplasmic docking proteins appear to be recruited by specific ErbB receptors and less exploited by others. These include the adaptors Crk, Nck, the phospholipase C gamma (PLCgamma), the intracellular tyrosine kinase Src, or the Cbl E3 ubiquitin protein ligase.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_FC_EPSILON_RI_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	78	Fc epsilon RI signaling pathway	C2	Fc epsilon RI-mediated signaling pathways in mast cells are initiated by the interaction of antigen (Ag) with IgE bound to the extracellular domain of the alpha chain of Fc epsilon RI. The activation pathways are regulated both positively and negatively by the interactions of numerous signaling molecules. Mast cells that are thus activated release preformed granules which contain biogenic amines (especially histamines) and proteoglycans (especially heparin). The activation of phospholipase A2 causes the release of membrane lipids followed by development of lipid mediators such as leukotrienes (LTC4, LTD4 and LTE4) and prostaglandins (especially PDG2). There is also secretion of cytokines, the most important of which are TNF-alpha, IL-4 and IL-5. These mediators and cytokines contribute to inflammatory responses.	1.53496725364401
KEGG_FC_GAMMA_R_MEDIATED_PHAGOCYTOSIS	94	Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis	C2	Phagocytosis plays an essential role in host-defense mechanisms through the uptake and destruction of infectious pathogens. Specialized cell types including macrophages, neutrophils, and monocytes take part in this process in higher organisms. After opsonization with antibodies (IgG), foreign extracellular materials are recognized by Fc gamma receptors. Cross-linking of Fc gamma receptors initiates a variety of signals mediated by tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple proteins, which lead through the actin cytoskeleton rearrangements and membrane remodeling to the formation of phagosomes. Nascent phagosomes undergo a process of maturation that involves fusion with lysosomes. The acquisition of lysosomal proteases and release of reactive oxygen species are crucial for digestion of engulfed materials in phagosomes.	1.37241858608908
KEGG_FOCAL_ADHESION	199	Focal adhesion	C2	Cell-matrix adhesions play essential roles in important biological processes including cell motility, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, regulation of gene expression and cell survival. At the cell-extracellular matrix contact points, specialized structures are formed and termed focal adhesions, where bundles of actin filaments are anchored to transmembrane receptors of the integrin family through a multi-molecular complex of junctional plaque proteins. Some of the constituents of focal adhesions participate in the structural link between membrane receptors and the actin cytoskeleton, while others are signalling molecules, including different protein kinases and phosphatases, their substrates, and various adapter proteins. Integrin signaling is dependent upon the non-receptor tyrosine kinase activities of the FAK and src proteins as well as the adaptor protein functions of FAK, src and Shc to initiate downstream signaling events. These signalling events culminate in reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton; a prerequisite for changes in cell shape and motility, and gene expression. Similar morphological alterations and modulation of gene expression are initiated by the binding of growth factors to their respective receptors, emphasizing the considerable crosstalk between adhesion- and growth factor-mediated signalling.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_GAP_JUNCTION	90	Gap junction	C2	Gap junctions contain intercellular channels that allow direct communication between the cytosolic compartments of adjacent cells. Each gap junction channel is formed by docking of two 'hemichannels', each containing six connexins, contributed by each neighboring cell. These channels permit the direct transfer of small molecules including ions, amino acids, nucleotides, second messengers and other metabolites between adjacent cells. Gap junctional communication is essential for many physiological events, including embryonic development, electrical coupling, metabolic transport, apoptosis, and tissue homeostasis. Communication through Gap Junction is sensitive to a variety of stimuli, including changes in the level of intracellular Ca2+, pH, transjunctional applied voltage and phosphorylation/dephosphorylation processes. This figure represents the possible activation routes of different protein kinases involved in Cx43 and Cx36 phosphorylation.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_GLIOMA	65	Glioma	C2	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) formation is either de novo (primary GBMs) or due to the progression of a lower grade glioma to a higher grade one through the acquisition of additional mutations (secondary GBMs). In primary GBM, disruption of the p53 pathway often occurs through loss of ARF, or less frequently through amplification of MDM2. Disruption of the RB pathway occurs through loss of INK4A. Amplification and/or mutation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is the most frequently detected genetic defect that is associated with primary GBM. In secondary GBM, loss of p53 and activation of the growth-factorreceptor-tyrosine-kinase signalling pathway (such as through overexpression of PDGF/PDGFR ) initiates tumour formation,whereas disruption of the retinoblastoma (RB) pathway contributes to the progression of tumour development. Loss of PTEN has been implicated in both pathways, although it is much more common in the pathogenesis of primary GBM.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_GNRH_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	100	GnRH signaling pathway	C2	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion from the hypothalamus acts upon its receptor in the anterior pituitary to regulate the production and release of the gonadotropins, LH and FSH. The GnRHR is coupled to Gq/11 proteins to activate phospholipase C which transmits its signal to diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). DAG activates the intracellular protein kinase C (PKC) pathway and IP3 stimulates release of intracellular calcium. In addition to the classical Gq/11, coupling of Gs is occasionally observed in a cell-specific fashion. Signaling downstream of protein kinase C (PKC) leads to transactivation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK. Active MAPKs translocate to the nucleus, resulting in activation of transcription factors and rapid induction of early genes.	1.92081875395238
KEGG_HUNTINGTONS_DISEASE	167	Huntington's disease	C2	Huntington disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder that primarily affects medium spiny striatal neurons (MSN). HD is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the IT15 gene, which results in a long stretch of polyglutamine close to the amino-terminus of the HD protein huntingtin (Htt). Mutant Htt (mHtt) has effects both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. In the cytoplasm, full-length mHtt can interfere with BDNF vesicular transport on microtubules. This mutant protein also may lead to abnormal endocytosis and secretion in neurons, because normal Htt form a complex with the proteins Hip1, clathrin and AP2 that are involved in endocytosis. In addition, mHtt affects Ca2+ signaling by sensitizing InsP3R1 to activation by InsP3, stimulating NR2B/NR1 NMDAR activity, and destabilizing mitochondrial Ca2+ handling. As a result, stimulation of glutamate receptors leads to supranormal Ca2+ responses in HD MSN and mitochondrial Ca2+ overload. The mHtt translocates to the nucleus, where it forms intranuclear inclusions, though they are not primarily responsible for toxicity. Nuclear toxicity is believed to be caused by interference with gene transcription, leading to loss of transcription of neuroprotective molecules such as BDNF. While mHtt binds to p53 and upregulates levels of nuclear p53 as well as p53 transcriptional activity. Augmented p53 mediates mitochondrial dysfunction.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_HYPERTROPHIC_CARDIOMYOPATHY_HCM	83	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM)	C2	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a primary myocardial disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance that is characterized by hypertrophy of the left ventricles with histological features of myocyte hypertrophy, myofibrillar disarray, and interstitial fibrosis. HCM is one of the most common inherited cardiac disorders, with a prevalence in young adults of 1 in 500. Hundreds of mutations in 11 genes that encode protein constituents of the sarcomere have been identified in HCM. These mutations increase the Ca2+ sensitivity of cardiac myofilaments. Increased myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity is expected to increase the ATP utilization by actomyosin at submaximal Ca2+ concentrations, which might cause an imbalance in energy supply and demand in the heart under severe stress. The inefficient use of ATP suggests that an inability to maintain normal ATP levels could be the central abnormality. This theory might be supported by the discovery of the role of a mutant PRKAG2 gene in HCM, which in active form acts as a central sensing mechanism protecting cells from depletion of ATP supplies. The increase in the myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity well account for the diastolic dysfunction of model animals as well as human patients of HCM. It has been widely proposed that left ventricular hypertrophy is not a primary manifestation but develops as compensatory response to sarcomere dysfunction.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_INOSITOL_PHOSPHATE_METABOLISM	54	Inositol phosphate metabolism	C2		1.76102780432812
KEGG_INSULIN_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	137	Insulin signaling pathway	C2	Insulin binding to its receptor results in the tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrates (IRS) by the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (INSR). This allows association of IRSs with the regulatory subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). PI3K activates 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1), which activates Akt, a serine kinase. Akt in turn deactivates glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3), leading to activation of glycogen synthase (GYS) and thus glycogen synthesis. Activation of Akt also results in the translocation of GLUT4 vesicles from their intracellular pool to the plasma membrane, where they allow uptake of glucose into the cell. Akt also leads to mTOR-mediated activation of protein synthesis by eIF4 and p70S6K. The translocation of GLUT4 protein is also elicited through the CAP/Cbl/TC10 pathway, once Cbl is phosphorylated by INSR. Other signal transduction proteins interact with IRS including GRB2. GRB2 is part of the cascade including SOS, RAS, RAF and MEK that leads to activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and mitogenic responses in the form of gene transcription. SHC is another substrate of INSR. When tyrosine phosphorylated, SHC associates with GRB2 and can thus activate the RAS/MAPK pathway independently of IRS-1.	1.62443367890027
KEGG_LEUKOCYTE_TRANSENDOTHELIAL_MIGRATION	115	Leukocyte transendothelial migration	C2	Leukocyte migaration from the blood into tissues is vital for immune surveillance and inflammation. During this diapedesis of leukocytes, the leukocytes bind to endothelial cell adhesion molecules (CAM) and then migrate across the vascular endothelium. A leukocyte adherent to CAMs on the endothelial cells moves forward by leading-edge protrusion and retraction of its tail. In this process, alphaL /beta2 integrin activates through Vav1, RhoA, which subsequently activates the kinase p160ROCK. ROCK activation leads to MLC phosphorylation, resulting in retraction of the actin cytoskeleton. Moreover, Leukocytes activate endothelial cell signals that stimulate endothelial cell retraction during localized dissociation of the endothelial cell junctions. ICAM-1-mediated signals activate an endothelial cell calcium flux and PKC, which are required for ICAM-1 dependent leukocyte migration. VCAM-1 is involved in the opening of the endothelial passage through which leukocytes can extravasate. In this regard, VCAM-1 ligation induces NADPH oxidase activation and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a Rac-mediated manner, with subsequent activation of matrix metallopoteinases and loss of VE-cadherin-mediated adhesion.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_LONG_TERM_DEPRESSION	69	Long-term depression	C2	Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), thought to be a molecular and cellular basis for cerebellar learning, is a process involving a decrease in the synaptic strength between parallel fiber (PF) and Purkinje cells (PCs) induced by the conjunctive activation of PFs and climbing fiber (CF). Multiple signal transduction pathways have been shown to be involved in this process. Activation of PFs terminating on spines in dendritic branchlets leads to glutamate release and activation of both AMPA and mGluRs. Activation of CFs, which make multiple synaptic contacts on proximal dendrites, also via AMPA receptors, opens voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and causes a generalized influx of calcium. These cellular signals, generated from two different synaptic origins, trigger a cascade of events culminating in a phosphorylation-dependent, long-term reduction in AMPA receptor sensitivity at the PF-PC synapse. This may take place either through receptor internalization and/or through receptor desensitization.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_LONG_TERM_POTENTIATION	70	Long-term potentiation	C2	Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy, is the molecular basis for learning and memory. Tetanic stimulation of afferents in the CA1 region of the hippocampus induces glutamate release and activation of glutamate receptors in dendritic spines. A large increase in i resulting from influx through NMDA receptors leads to constitutive activation of CaM kinase II (CaM KII). Constitutively active CaM kinase II phosphorylates AMPA receptors, resulting in potentiation of the ionic conductance of AMPA receptors. Early-phase LTP (E-LTP) expression is due, in part, to this phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor. It is hypothesized that postsynaptic Ca2+ increases generated through NMDA receptors activate several signal transduction pathways including the Erk/MAP kinase and cAMP regulatory pathways. The convergence of these pathways at the level of the CREB/CRE transcriptional pathway may increase expression of a family of genes required for late-phase LTP (L-LTP).	1.76102780432812
KEGG_MAPK_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	266	MAPK signaling pathway	C2	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved module that is involved in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation and migration. Mammals express at least four distinctly regulated groups of MAPKs, extracellular signal-related kinases (ERK)-1/2, Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNK1/2/3), p38 proteins (p38alpha/beta/gamma/delta) and ERK5, that are activated by specific MAPKKs: MEK1/2 for ERK1/2, MKK3/6 for the p38, MKK4/7 (JNKK1/2) for the JNKs, and MEK5 for ERK5. Each MAPKK, however, can be activated by more than one MAPKKK, increasing the complexity and diversity of MAPK signalling. Presumably each MAPKKK confers responsiveness to distinct stimuli. For example, activation of ERK1/2 by growth factors depends on the MAPKKK c-Raf, but other MAPKKKs may activate ERK1/2 in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_MELANOMA	71	Melanoma	C2	Five distinct stages have been proposed in the evolution of melanoma on the basis of histological criteria: common acquired and congenital nevi without dysplastic changes; dysplastic nevi with structural and architectural atypia; radial-growth phase (RGP) melanoma; vertical-growth phase (VGP) melanoma; and metastatic melanoma. Oncogenic NRAS mutations activate both effector pathways Raf-MEK-ERK and PI3K-Akt. The Raf-MEK-ERK pathway may also be activated via mutations in the BRAF gene. The PI3K-Akt pathway may be activated through loss or mutation of the inhibitory tumor suppressor gene PTEN. These mutations arise early during melanoma pathogenesis and are preserved throughout tumor progression. Moreover, melanoma development is strongly associated with inactivation of the p16INK4a/CDK4,6/pRb and p14ARF/HMD2/p53 tumor suppressor pathways. The vertical-growth phase and metastatic melanoma are notable for striking changes in the control of cell adhesion. Recently, amplification of the MITF gene was demonstrated in 10% of primary melanomas and 20% of metastatic melanomas, suggesting that MITF is a melanoma oncogene.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_MTOR_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	52	mTOR signaling pathway	C2		1.50052035627346
KEGG_NEUROACTIVE_LIGAND_RECEPTOR_INTERACTION	269	Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction	C2		1.29721906725643
KEGG_NEUROTROPHIN_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	126	Neurotrophin signaling pathway	C2	Neurotrophins are a family of trophic factors involved in differentiation and survival of neural cells. The neurotrophin family consists of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin 4 (NT-4). Neurotrophins exert their functions through engagement of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors or p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). Neurotrophin/Trk signaling is regulated by connecting a variety of intracellular signaling cascades, which include MAPK pathway, PI-3 kinase pathway, and PLC pathway, transmitting positive signals like enhanced survival and growth. On the other hand, p75NTR transmits both positive and nagative signals. These signals play an important role for neural development and additional higher-order activities such as learning and memory.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_NON_SMALL_CELL_LUNG_CANCER	54	Non-small cell lung cancer	C2	Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately 80% of lung cancer and represents a heterogeneous group of cancers, consisting mainly of squamous cell (SCC), adeno (AC) and large-cell carcinoma. Molecular mechanisms altered in NSCLC include activation of oncogenes, such as K-RAS and c-erbB-2, and inactivation of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, p16INK4a, RAR-beta, and RASSF1. Point mutations within the K-RAS gene inactivate GTPase activity and the p21-RAS protein continuously transmits growth signals to the nucleus. Overexpression of c-erbB-2 or EGFR leads to a proliferative advantage. Inactivating mutation of p53 can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The protein encoded by the p16INK4a inhibits formation of CDK-cyclin-D complexes by competitive binding of CDK4 and CDK6. Loss of p16INK4a expression is a common feature of NSCLC RAR-beta is a nuclear receptor that bears vitamin-A-dependent transcriptional activity. RASSF1A is able to form heterodimers with Nore-1, an RAS effector.Therefore loss of RASSF1A might shift the balance of RAS activity towards a growth-promoting effect.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_OLFACTORY_TRANSDUCTION	381	Olfactory transduction	C2	Within the compact cilia of the olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) a cascade of enzymatic activity transduces the binding of an odorant molecule to a receptor into an electrical signal that can be transmitted to the brain. Odorant molecules bind to a receptor protein (R) coupled to an olfactory specific Gs-protein (G) and activate a type III adenylyl cyclase (AC), increasing intracellular cAMP levels. cAMP targets an olfactory-specific cyclic-nucleotide gated ion channel (CNG), allowing cations, particularly Na and Ca, to flow down their electrochemical gradients into the cell, depolarizing the ORN. Furthermore, the Ca entering the cell is able to activate a Ca-activated Cl channel, which would allow Cl to flow out of the cell, thus further increasing the depolarization. Elevated intracellular Ca causes adaptation by at least two different molecular steps: inhibition of the activity of adenylyl cyclase via CAMKII-dependent phosphorylation and down-regulation of the affinity of the CNG channel to cAMP.Longer exposure to odorants can stimulate particulate guanylyl cyclase in cilia to produce cGMP and activate PKG, leading to a further increase in amount and duration of intracellular cAMP levels, which may serve to convert inactive forms of protein kinase A (PKA2) to active forms (PKA*). As part of a feedback loop, PKA can inhibit the activation of particulate guanylyl cyclase.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_P53_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	66	p53 signaling pathway	C2	p53 activation is induced by a number of stress signals, including DNA damage, oxidative stress and activated oncogenes. The p53 protein is employed as a transcriptional activator of p53-regulated genes. This results in three major outputs; cell cycle arrest, cellular senescence or apoptosis. Other p53-regulated gene functions communicate with adjacent cells, repair the damaged DNA or set up positive and negative feedback loops that enhance or attenuate the functions of the p53 protein and integrate these stress responses with other signal transduction pathways.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_PANCREATIC_CANCER	70	Pancreatic cancer	C2	Normal duct epithelium progresses to infiltrating cancer through a series of histologically defined precursors (PanINs). The overexpression of HER-2/neu and activating point mutations in the K-ras gene occur early, inactivation of the p16 gene at an intermediate stage, and the inactivation of p53, SMAD4, and BRCA2 occur relatively late. Activated K-ras engages multiple effector pathways. Although EGF receptors are conventionally regarded as upstream activators of RAS proteins, they can also act as RAS signal transducers via RAS-induced autocrine activation of the EGFR family ligands. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) show elevated expression of EGF receptors (e.g. HER2/neu) and their ligands (e.g.TGF-alpha) consistent with the presence of this autocrine loop. Moreover, PDA shows extensive genomic instability and aneuploidy. Telomere attrition and mutations in p53 and BRCA2 are likely to contribute to these phenotypes. Inactivation of the SMAD4 tumour suppressor gene leads to loss of the inhibitory influence of the transforming growth factor-beta signalling pathway.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_PATHWAYS_IN_CANCER	324	Pathways in cancer	C2		2.1279929869748
KEGG_PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL_SIGNALING_SYSTEM	76	Phosphatidylinositol signaling system	C2		1.92081875395238
KEGG_PROGESTERONE_MEDIATED_OOCYTE_MATURATION	84	Progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation	C2	Xenopus oocytes are naturally arrested at G2 of meiosis I. Exposure to either insulin/IGF-1 or the steroid hormone progesterone breaks this arrest and induces resumption of the two meiotic division cycles and maturation of the oocyte into a mature, fertilizable egg. This process is termed oocyte maturation. The transition is accompanied by an increase in maturation promoting factor (MPF or Cdc2/cyclin B) which precedes germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD). Most reports point towards the Mos-MEK1-ERK2 pathway and the polo-like kinase/CDC25 pathway as responsible for the activation of MPF in meiosis, most likely triggered by a decrease in cAMP.	1.57558507244718
KEGG_PROSTATE_CANCER	89	Prostate cancer	C2	The identification of key molecular alterations in prostate-cancer cells implicates carcinogen defenses (GSTP1), growth-factor-signaling pathways (NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27), and androgens (AR) as critical determinants of the phenotype of prostate-cancer cells. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTP1) are detoxifying enzymes that catalyze conjunction of glutathione with harmful, electrophilic molecules, thereby protecting cells from carcinogenic factors. Cells of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, devoid of GSTP1, undergo genomic damage mediated by such carcinogens. NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27 regulate the growth and survival of prostate cells in the normal prostate. Inadequate levels of PTEN and NKX3.1 lead to a reduction in p27 levels and to increased proliferation and decreased apoptosis. After therapeutic reduction in the levels of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, the emergence of androgen-independent prostate cancer has been associated with mutations in the androgen receptor (AR) that permit receptor activation by other ligands, increased expression of androgen receptors accompanying AR amplification, and ligand-independent androgen-receptor activation.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_REGULATION_OF_ACTIN_CYTOSKELETON	210	Regulation of actin cytoskeleton	C2		2.1279929869748
KEGG_RENAL_CELL_CARCINOMA	70	Renal cell carcinoma	C2	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a heterogenous term comprising a group of neoplasms of renal origin. There are 4 major histologic subtypes of RCC: conventional (clear cell RCC, 75%), papillary (15%), chromophobic (5%), and collecting duct (2%). Multiple genes are involved in the molecular pathogenesis of RCC. VHL is a tumor suppressor gene responsible for hereditary (von Hippel-Lindau) and sporadic variants of conventional (clear cell) RCC. In the absence of VHL, hypoxia-inducible factor alpha (HIF-alpha) accumulates, leading to production of several growth factors, including vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor. An oncogene, MET has been found to be mutant in cases of hereditary papillary renal cancer (HPRC), although the incidence of c-MET mutations is low in sporadic papillary RCC. Once activated, MET mediates a number of biological effects including motility, invasion of extracellular matrix, cellular transformation, prevention of apoptosis and metastasis formation. Mutations in the fumarate hydratase (FH) gene cause hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cancer syndrome (HLRCC) papillary renal tumors, although the incidence of FH mutations in sporadic tumors is unknown. Loss of functional FH leads to accumulation of fumarate in the cell, triggering inhibition of HPH and preventing targeted pVHL-mediated degradation of HIF-alpha. BHD mutations cause the Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome and its associated chromophobe, hybrid oncocytic, and conventional (clear cell) RCC. The incidence of BHD mutations in sporadic renal tumors is not known.	1.92081875395238
KEGG_SMALL_CELL_LUNG_CANCER	84	Small cell lung cancer	C2	Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is a highly aggressive neoplasm, which accounts for approximately 20% of all lung cancer cases. Molecular mechanisms altered in SCLC include induced expression of oncogene, MYC, and loss of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, PTEN, RB, and FHIT. The overexpression of MYC proteins in SCLC is largely a result of gene amplification. Such overexpression leads to more rapid proliferation and loss of terminal differentiation. Mutation or deletion of p53 or PTEN can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The retinoblastoma gene RB1 encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that helps to regulate cell-cycle progression. The fragile histidine triad gene FHIT encodes the enzyme diadenosine triphosphate hydrolase, which is thought to have an indirect role in proapoptosis and cell-cycle control.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_T_CELL_RECEPTOR_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	108	T cell receptor signaling pathway	C2	Activation of T lymphocytes is a key event for an efficient response of the immune system. It requires the involvement of the T-cell receptor (TCR) as well as costimulatory molecules such as CD28. Engagement of these receptors through the interaction with a foreign antigen associated with major histocompatibility complex molecules and CD28 counter-receptors B7.1/B7.2, respectively, results in a series of signaling cascades. These cascades comprise an array of protein-tyrosine kinases, phosphatases, GTP-binding proteins and adaptor proteins that regulate generic and specialised functions, leading to T-cell proliferation, cytokine production and differentiation into effector cells.	1.20760831050175
KEGG_THYROID_CANCER	29	Thyroid cancer	C2	Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), the most frequent neoplasia originating from the thyroid epithelium, accounts for about 80% of all thyroid cancers. Chimeric oncogenes, created by chromosomal rearrangements involving prevalently RET and, to a less extent, NTRK1 loci, are implicated in the development of papillary carcinoma.These are inappropriately expressed and stimulate constitutive signaling, bypassing the need for receptor activation by growth factors. Alternatively, mutant RAS directly stimulates BRAF, whereas mutant BRAF directly stimulates MEK. Of all thyroid cancers, 15-20% are follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC). The most distinctive molecular features of follicular carcinoma are the prominence of aneuploidy and the high prevalence of RAS mutations and PAX8-PPAR-gamma rearrangements. The PPAR-gamma rearrangement functions through a dominant-negative effect on the transcriptional activity of wild-type PPAR-gamma. The fusion oncoprotein contributes to malignant transformation by targeting several cellular pathways, some of which are normally engaged by PPAR-gamma. Most poorly differentiated and undifferentiated thyroid carcinomas are considered to derive from pre-existing well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma through additional genetic events, including beta-catenin nuclear accumulation and p53 inactivation, but de novo occurrence might also occur.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_TIGHT_JUNCTION	131	Tight junction	C2	Epithelial tight junctions (TJs) are composed of at least three types of transmembrane protein -occludin, claudin and junctional adhesion molecules (JAMs)- and a cytoplasmic 'plaque' consisting of many different proteins that form large complexes. The transmembrane proteins mediate cell adhesion and are thought to constitute the intramembrane and paracellular diffusion barriers. The cytoplasmic 'plaque' contains three major multi-protein complexes consisting largely of scaffolding proteins, the ZO protein complex, the CRB3-Pals1-PATJ complex and the PAR-3-aPKC-PAR-6 complex. The ZO protein complex appears to organize the transmembrane proteins and couple them to other cytoplasmic proteins and to actin microfilaments. Two evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, the CRB3 and PAR complexes are involved in the establishment and maintenance of epithelial cell polarity. Besides these three protein complexes which seem to be constitutively associated at TJs, a number of proteins with different functions has been identified at TJs. These include additional scaffolding proteins like MUPP1 and MAGI-1, adaptor proteins, transcription regulators and RNA processing factors, regulatory proteins like small GTPases and G-proteins, kinases and phosphatases, and heat shock proteins. These are proposed to be involved in junction assembly, barrier regulation, gene transcription, and perhaps other, presently undefined pathways.	2.1279929869748
KEGG_TYPE_II_DIABETES_MELLITUS	47	Type II diabetes mellitus	C2	Insulin resistance is strongly associated with type II diabetes. Diabetogenic factors including FFA, TNFalpha and cellular stress induce insulin resistance through inhibition of IRS1 functions. Serine/threonine phosphorylation, interaction with SOCS, regulation of the expression, modification of the cellular localization, and degradation represent the molecular mechanisms stimulated by them. Various kinases (ERK, JNK, IKKbeta, PKCzeta, PKCtheta and mTOR) are involved in this process. The development of type II diabetes requires impaired beta-cell function. Chronic hyperglycemia has been shown to induce multiple defects in beta-cells. Hyperglycemia has been proposed to lead to large amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in beta-cells, with subsequent damage to cellular components including PDX-1. Loss of PDX-1, a critical regulator of insulin promoter activity, has also been proposed as an important mechanism leading to beta-cell dysfunction. Although there is little doubt as to the importance of genetic factors in type II diabetes, genetic analysis is difficult due to complex interaction among multiple susceptibility genes and between genetic and environmental factors. Genetic studies have therefore given very diverse results. Kir6.2 and IRS are two of the candidate genes. It is known that Kir6.2 and IRS play central roles in insulin secretion and insulin signal transmission, respectively.	1.68472949517392
KEGG_VASCULAR_SMOOTH_MUSCLE_CONTRACTION	114	Vascular smooth muscle contraction	C2	The vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) is a highly specialized cell whose principal function is contraction. On contraction, VSMCs shorten, thereby decreasing the diameter of a blood vessel to regulate the blood flow and pressure. The principal mechanisms that regulate the contractile state of VSMCs are changes in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration (c). In response to vasoconstrictor stimuli, Ca2+ is mobilized from intracellular stores and/or the extracellular space to increase c in VSMCs. The increase in c, in turn, activates the Ca2+-CaM-MLCK pathway and stimulates MLC20 phosphorylation, leading to myosin-actin interactions and, hence, the development of contractile force. The sensitivity of contractile myofilaments or MLC20 phosphorylation to Ca2+ can be secondarily modulated by other signaling pathways. During receptor stimulation, the contractile force is greatly enhanced by the inhibition of myosin phosphatase. Rho/Rho kinase, PKC, and arachidonic acid have been proposed to play a pivotal role in this enhancement. The signaling events that mediate relaxation include the removal of a contractile agonist (passive relaxation) and activation of cyclic nucleotide-dependent signaling pathways in the continued presence of a contractile agonist (active relaxation). Active relaxation occurs through the inhibition of both Ca2+ mobilization and myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity in VSMCs.	1.76102780432812
KEGG_VEGF_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	75	VEGF signaling pathway	C2	There is now much evidence that VEGFR-2 is the major mediator of VEGF-driven responses in endothelial cells and it is considered to be a crucial signal transducer in both physiologic and pathologic angiogenesis. The binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to a cascade of different signaling pathways, resulting in the up-regulation of genes involved in mediating the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells and promoting their survival and vascular permeability. For example, the binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to dimerization of the receptor, followed by intracellular activation of the PLCgamma;PKC-Raf kinase-MEK-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and subsequent initiation of DNA synthesis and cell growth, whereas activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3' -kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway leads to increased endothelial-cell survival. Activation of PI3K, FAK, and p38 MAPK is implicated in cell migration signaling.	1.39166847977107
KEGG_VIRAL_MYOCARDITIS	68	Viral myocarditis	C2	Myocarditis is a cardiac disease associated with inflammation and injury of the myocardium. It results from various etiologies, both noninfectious and infectious, but coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) is still considered the dominant etiological agent. Myocarditis may be caused by direct cytopathic effects of virus, a pathologic immune response to persistent virus, or autoimmunity triggered by the viral infection. The virus enters the myocyte through internalization of the coxsackie-adenoviral receptor (CAR) and its coreceptor, decay-accelerating factor (DAF). Viral proteases cleave various proteins in the host cell. One example is viral protease 2A, which cleaves eukaryote initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) and the dystrophin protein, resulting in a complete shutdown of cap-dependent RNA translation and cytoskeletal destruction in infected cardiomyocytes, respectively. CVB3 also cleaves the member of the Bcl-2 family Bid, leading to apoptosis. CVB3 infection also induces the cleavage of cyclin D protein through a proteasome-dependent pathway, leading to the host cell-growth arrest. Viral infection and necrosis of myocytes may lead to the release of intracellular antigens, resulting in activation of self-reactive T cells. CVB infection is a significant cause of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) as well as myocarditis. Epidemiologically, myocarditis underlies a significant portion of patients with DCM.	1.84269678830449
KEGG_WNT_SIGNALING_PATHWAY	148	Wnt signaling pathway	C2	Wnt proteins are secreted morphogens that are required for basic developmental processes, such as cell-fate specification, progenitor-cell proliferation and the control of asymmetric cell division, in many different species and organs. There are at least three different Wnt pathways: the canonical pathway, the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. In the canonical Wnt pathway, the major effect of Wnt ligand binding to its receptor is the stabilization of cytoplasmic beta-catenin through inhibition of the bea-catenin degradation complex. Beta-catenin is then free to enter the nucleus and activate Wnt-regulated genes through its interaction with TCF (T-cell factor) family transcription factors and concomitant recruitment of coactivators. Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling leads to the activation of the small GTPases RHOA (RAS homologue gene-family member A) and RAC1, which activate the stress kinase JNK (Jun N-terminal kinase) and ROCK (RHO-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1) and leads to remodelling of the cytoskeleton and changes in cell adhesion and motility. WNT-Ca2+ signalling is mediated through G proteins and phospholipases and leads to transient increases in cytoplasmic free calcium that subsequently activate the kinase PKC (protein kinase C) and CAMKII (calcium calmodulin mediated kinase II) and the phosphatase calcineurin.	1.39166847977107
